okay now we're going to do what's called
a simple stain and just like it sounds
it's simple in the fact that there's not
many steps okay as opposed to what
you'll be doing next time which is
called a differential stain differential
stains help you distinguish between
different types of bacteria there's also
special stains that we're going to do
that look for specific things but right
now we're going to do the simple stain
which means we put on one color and we
wash it off and allow it to dry the
reason that we're going to give the
bacterial color is so that we can see
them under the microscope if you were to
just take the bacteria put it on the
slide put a coverslip on and look it
under the microscope it's interesting to
see because you can see the movement of
the bacteria but they're hard to see
because they are colorless they blend in
with their background so we're after we
fix them we're going to stain them to
give them color with a simple stain the
purpose of doing the simple stain is a
couple things first of all it's going to
teach you how to properly stain okay
second of all by giving them color you
can actually see their morphology or
their shape you can see their
arrangement is it diplo is its staff
flow is its drug dough and you can also
see its size so we're going to be
looking at three different bacteria
they're going to be of different sizes
they're going to be of different shapes
and different arrangements so you'll be
able to observe those things that gives
you the foundation to then go on to the
next stain which will be the Gram stain
when you start doing the distinguishing
between bacteria so we started out with
looking at bacteria on plates and things
like that and looking at the colony
shape now we're going to be looking at
the actual bacterial shape and
arrangement then we'll start the
differentiating so now we're identifying
the different bacteria now we have the
slides that we previously made smears
and fixed okay so like I said before you
start any staining procedure you will
prepare a smear and fix this
unless the procedure tells you not to so
don't skip the whole part of the last
video of preparing this mirror and
fixing it so I've already done that so
I'm ready for the staining procedure
there's various simple things that you
can use simple stains like these are
stains that are have a negative charge
to it I'm sorry scratch that have a
positive charge to that which allows
them to adhere to the bacterial cells
because the cells themselves have a
slight negative charge so these are
direct stains because they stain the
bacteria later we're going to see what's
called a negative stain where it
actually stains the background instead
of the bacteria so we're going to use
these types of stains like crystal
violet methylene blue and carbon fusion
because these are all positively charged
stains the only difference between them
is this is going to be purple this is
going to be blue and this is going to be
a red the procedure is the same but by
doing the three different stains on our
three different bacteria you can get a
feel for what different colors look like
so when you're trying to distinguish
under the microscope red blue purple
it's going to look a little bit
different than what they look like here
now keeping in mind these are stains so
you want to be wearing gloves I do not
recommend you use the clothes pins it's
completely up to you but I think it just
makes it more cumbersome we have gloves
on we're not wearing our favorite
clothes which I shouldn't be wearing
this shirt maybe you're wearing a coat
or something to cover it up these the
work stain does mean stain it's not just
staining the bacteria it's staining
everything okay so you wear gloves to
make sure you don't get it on your hands
so basically with a simple stain all
you're going to do is add the stain let
it sit and you're going to wash it off
okay so I'm going to do crystal violet
and then methylene blue and then karbala
fuchsia so you just squeeze it and you
literally flood the smear okay so
wherever the bacteria was you flood it
this one I just had one on his mind blue
and this one I had one on which was a
carbo fusion now remember we had that we
had made the circles say I'm already
make them s you would put the circles on
the bottom of it because if you put the
circles or marker on top it will wash
off so make sure when you put your
slides up here to stain that this mirror
is facing up and it's not on the bottom
because you'll end up staining the
bottom of the slide and it'll all just
wash off okay so before you put them up
here make sure the stain is on the up
side okay we're going to let those sit
for 60 seconds I've been talking for
about 30 so you let them sit for a
minute I'm not going to wait a full
minute but you will wait a full minute
can even go a little bit longer it's
more to let it go a little bit longer
rather than to cut it short so after
it's set for the minute you're going to
rinse it so you're basically going to
lift the slide up and you're going to
spray the water on it man this is tough
water bottles and I don't know if you
can see it or not but this smear here
you can see the purple that one you
can't even though you can't see that
that doesn't mean that it's not there it
just means that there's not as much
bacteria there do the same with this
procedure I mean with this slide and
that is hard bubble teas and this one
okay now we're going to want to look at
these under the microscope we obviously
don't want to do it wet you can also
rinse the bottom a little back a little
bit just to make sure that there's no
stain excess stain lived on the slide
okay don't be afraid to put a lot of
water on there
okay now it says to dry them with paper
basically paper towels work fine you
don't have to have a nice type special
type of paper the only thing that I
recommend is that you don't rub it and
scratch it off so what I like to do is
just take all of my slides put them on
the paper towel at one time
and then fold it on top of there and
then you just dab it you can see what
I'm doing then you just dab it to get
the water off okay the idea is you don't
rub because you're you've spent all that
time fixing a smear you don't want to
rub the bacteria off so you just want to
dry now what you can also do to allow it
to dry a little bit longer just to make
sure that you don't get any water or
stain on the microscope you want to make
sure they're completely dry another
thing you can do is just kind of prop it
up somewhere like you're washing dishes
no you put them in a dish rack you can
prop them up here like this and let them
air dry a little bit longer just to make
sure they're completely dry okay you can
do that while you're getting your
microscope and everything out so that's
the simple state